# Actions & Roadmap



- Add logic 
- DONE:JOE:2019-12-23: Port Python humidity code to Lua
- How much water do we need to review 
- does drying with molecular seive follow the relative humidity curve
- Verify the molecular sieve total absorption stays relatively constant as humidity changes. The chart [Silica Gel  & Molecular Sieve absorption curve](https://valdamarkdirect.com/product/silica-gel-sachets/) shows that the absorption from 20% through 100% stays constant at roughly 20% relative humidity and 0% to 20% has a curve from 15% to 20%.  This curve does not show any change due to temperature.   Need to measure this to determine if it remains correct.
- Verify that a Molecular Sieve when exposed to one humidity at a lower temperature will equalize at the same humidity when it is placed in a sealed container that is heated to a greater temp.  This is essential for the system to be able to regenerate the desiccant using relatively low delta temp or  heat.
- Test a thin sheet of plastic or fabric coated with a contact glue where we apply a even layer of desiccant beads.  Then use a larger bead every so often to create an air gap between sheets hung vertically.
- Confirm whether a molecular sieve requires the same energy that water does to  evaporate or roughly 3.68kWh per gallon.  Since the water has never entered solution it may not require that energy to overcome the mechanical linkage.
- Confirm amount of weight change when molecular sieve exposed to one humidity such as 80% at ambient is then heated and held at 150F while ambient air is exchanged over a period of time.  The theory is that some of the water will evaporate and be exhausted and will  drop in weight equal to the difference in weight of the water at the two temperatures.  For example if exposed to humidity at 50F @ 80% RH the air will contain 12.5 grams per cubic meter.     When heated to 150F the air could contain 132 grams.    
- If we find a way to store sufficient heat during the day then we could heat the night time air to the daytime temperature and greatly increase the drying with minimal energy costs.  For example night time air 38F @ 75% containing 4.562 grams of water per cubic meter is heated to the daytime temperature of 65F the relative humidity drops to 29%.   In a building  36X52X12 it contains 1.58 gallons of water at 65F @ 60% relative humidity.  Our goal is to dry this air to 40% relative humidity where the building would contain 1.05 gallons of water.  So we need to remove 0.52 gallons of water.  Assuming 3.58 kWh per gallon this would require thermal storage of 1.95 gallons
- Confirm the heating costs: Since the air at the higher temperature could contain more water the desiccant should donate moisture until it equalizes.     20.2 grams  is  9.5% of  132 grams so if  exposed at 150F continuously where the replacement air is supplied from ambient air similar to the starting.   Another way to think about this is that when air that containing 12.5 grams is heated to 150 where it could hold a 132 grams  it relative humidity drops it is at a deficit of humidity compared to the desiccant and should absorb moisture from the desiccant until it equalizes.  Since we will replace some of it's volume with new drier air  heated from ambient it should equalize.   There is some loss as it take time and air velocity to equalize the desiccant at a given temperature but we should be able to compute amount of air required to carry away a given amount of moisture and then confirm the  difference experimentally to accommodate for time required to allow the moisture exchange.  A given building of where we are using 50 pounds of desiccant charged to a maximum of 15% it will contain 7.32 pounds of  water.   We know that  1 Cubic foot of air at 150F @ 10% RH  could contain  0.0010355 pounds per cubic foot of gas. This means we will need to move about 7.32 / 0.03657 = 707 Cubic Foot of GAS to equalize the desiccant to a level where it has lost approximately 90% of the moisture it previously contained but this needs to be adjusted for the time to allow the GAS  to interact with the desiccant.   In reality we would only require the air to absorb a fraction of what is capable of such as 50% which would increase the  air volume to about  1414 cubic foot.  The actual formula would be more complex as the regeneration would occur on a curve where the humidity starts higher then curves lower water content drops in the desiccant.  It requires 0.0057 watts to heat 1 cubic foot of air by 1 degree F.    To heat 7100 cubic foot of air from 50F to 100F would requires    1413 * 0.0057 * (150 - 50) = 805 watts.  I think the actual curve would be me much higher as the desiccant would only be at 10% near the end of it's cycle that would likely look closer to a 45 degree slope which would divide this by half to about 403 watts.  If we want to regenerate in 1 hour then we will need a heat source capable of providing 805 watts.   We also need a blower or fan capable of moving 23 CFM through the descant chamber.
- RESEARCH ONLY: Determine regeneration behavior when exposed to a vacuum equal  3PSI.   Would it be feasible to place under partial vacuum then use a periodic vacuum pump to extract gas as it escapes from the beads.  This may provide a very low energy mechanism to regenerate but it would increase capital costs as the chamber would need to withstand the vacuum and be re-opened during the recharge cycle.
- 